customization2.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Customization(2)
headline: Pico Plugins &amp; Themes
description: |
    Below are some plugins and themes which extend the functionality of Pico and make it even more awesome.<br />
    Want to create a plugin or theme? Please refer to [our documentation](/docs/#plugins)!
nav: 4

portfolio:
  categories:
    theme: Themes
    plugin: Plugins
  items:
    -
      heading: Pico Tags
      description: Provides tags functionality for Pico.<br><br>Using this plugin, you can use the Tags and Filter headers in the page meta block in order to modify the pages array for pages of your choice. This creates the possibility to feature index pages which show only posts of a certain type.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/PontusHorn/Pico-Tags
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/PontusHorn">PontusHorn</a>
        Last Updated: 6/07/16
    -
      heading: Pico Edit
      description: A simple admin for Pico with pages/404/options editor.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/blocknotes/pico_edit
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/blocknotes">blocknotes</a>
        Last Updated: 5/25/16
    -
      heading: PicoGAnalytics
      description: Gooogle Analytics for Pico with basic options.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/bricebou/pico_ganalytics
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/bricebou">bricebou</a>
        Last Updated: 5/29/16
    -
      heading: Pico Pagination
      description: Provides basic pagination for Pico. (Supposedly Updated for 1.0)
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/rewdy/Pico-Pagination
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/rewdy">rewdy</a>
        Last Updated: 1/31/16
    -
      heading: Pico GitHub Activity
      description: Your GitHub public activity feed.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/theshka/pico_githubactivity
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/theshka">theshka</a>
        Last Updated: 10/08/15
    -
      heading: Pico&#39;s Default Theme
      description: It&#39;s a bit bare... but that&#39;s intentional!<br><br>These apostrophes are escaped because the entire section of html is within single-quotes and will break without them escaped.<br><br>This needs a better solution...
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/default_theme.png
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: http://picocms.org
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        Date: 6/10/16
        Author: Simon McDougall
        _blank: Whatever Items You Want
    -
      heading: NotePaper
      description: A highly customizable theme, designed exclusively for Pico.<br><br>Features:<ul><li>Widgets</li><li>Blog-Style Front Page</li><li>Sub-Navigation</li><li>Navigation Arrows</li><li>Built-in Disqus or Facebook Comments</li><li>Custom Themes</li><li>User CSS Overrides</li><li>Basic Search Function</li><li>Basic Tag Widgets</li><li>Very customizable, with extensive Configuration Options</li>
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/notepaper_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: http://development.sjmcdougall.com/pico-themes/NotePaper/
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/notepaper_theme.jpg
      info:
        By: <a href="http://sjmcdougall.com">Simon McDougall</a>
        Last Updated: 5/01/16
    -
      heading: Single
      description: Single Theme from FreeHTML5.co, ported to Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/single_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/single
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/single_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://freehtml5.co/preview/?item=single-free-html5-bootstrap-template">FreeHTML5.co</a>
        Last Updated: 4/07/16
    -
      heading: Magazine
      description: Magazine Theme from FreeHTML5.co, ported to Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/magazine_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/magazine
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/magazine_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://freehtml5.co/preview/?item=magazine-free-html5-bootstrap-template">FreeHTML5.co</a>
        Last Updated: 4/03/16
    -
      heading: Identity
      description: Identity Theme from HTML5 UP, ported to Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/identity_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/single
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/identity_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="https://html5up.net/identity">html5up.net</a>
        Last Updated: 4/04/16
    -
      heading: Hold
      description: Hold Theme from FreeHTML5.co, ported to Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/hold_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/magazine
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/hold_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://freehtml5.co/preview/?item=hold-free-html5-bootstrap-template">FreeHTML5.co</a>
        Last Updated: 5/12/16
    -
      heading: SimpleTwo
      description: SimpleTwo is a simple theme with two columns for picoCMS.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/simpletwo_theme.png
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/sonst-was/simpleTwo
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/simpletwo_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/sonst-was">sonst-was</a>
        Last Updated: 4/05/16
    -
      heading: Simple Sidebar
      description: Simple Sidebar is a theme from Start Bootstrap, ported to Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/simple_sidebar_theme.png
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/dmelo/bt-theme
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/simple_sidebar_theme.png
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/dmelo">dmelo</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://startbootstrap.com/template-overviews/simple-sidebar/">Start Bootstrap</a>
        Last Updated: 2/13/16
---

{% include portfolio.html %}

---

## More Plugins & Themes

On this page we just present a tiny selection of the vast number of awesome third-party plugins and themes out there! A good start point for discovery is [our Wiki]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki), where you can find many more [plugins]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki/Pico-Plugins) and [themes]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki/Pico-Themes). For more information, especially about how you can create your own plugin or theme, please refer to the [docs]({{ site.github.url }}/docs/#customization).

Commit message:

Added descriptions to some ported themes

customization2.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Customization(2)
headline: Pico Plugins &amp; Themes
description: |
    Below are some plugins and themes which extend the functionality of Pico and make it even more awesome.<br />
    Want to create a plugin or theme? Please refer to [our documentation](/docs/#plugins)!
nav: 4

portfolio:
  categories:
    theme: Themes
    plugin: Plugins
  items:
    -
      heading: Pico Tags
      description: Provides tags functionality for Pico.<br><br>Using this plugin, you can use the Tags and Filter headers in the page meta block in order to modify the pages array for pages of your choice. This creates the possibility to feature index pages which show only posts of a certain type.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/PontusHorn/Pico-Tags
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/PontusHorn">PontusHorn</a>
        Last Updated: 6/07/16
    -
      heading: Pico Edit
      description: A simple admin for Pico with pages/404/options editor.<br><br>Pico Edit provides a back-end interface to edit Pico pages. Additionally, it has the ability to perform some basic Git operations such as commit, push/pull etc.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/blocknotes/pico_edit
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/blocknotes">blocknotes</a>
        Last Updated: 5/25/16
    -
      heading: PicoGAnalytics
      description: Gooogle Analytics for Pico with basic options.<br><br>This plugin will automatically add the Google Analytics tracking script to the < head > section of each page generated by Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/bricebou/pico_ganalytics
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/bricebou">bricebou</a>
        Last Updated: 5/29/16
    -
      heading: Pico Pagination
      description: Provides basic pagination for Pico. (Supposedly Updated for 1.0)
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/rewdy/Pico-Pagination
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/rewdy">rewdy</a>
        Last Updated: 1/31/16
    -
      heading: Pico GitHub Activity
      description: Your GitHub public activity feed.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/plugin.png
      categories: plugin
      meta: Plugin
      link: https://github.com/theshka/pico_githubactivity
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/theshka">theshka</a>
        Last Updated: 10/08/15
    -
      heading: Pico&#39;s Default Theme
      description: It&#39;s a bit bare... but that&#39;s intentional!<br><br>These apostrophes are escaped because the entire section of html is within single-quotes and will break without them escaped.<br><br>This needs a better solution...
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/default_theme.png
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: http://picocms.org
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/default_theme.png
      info:
        Date: 6/10/16
        Author: Simon McDougall
        _blank: Whatever Items You Want
    -
      heading: NotePaper
      description: A highly customizable theme, designed exclusively for Pico.<br><br>Features:<ul><li>Widgets</li><li>Blog-Style Front Page</li><li>Sub-Navigation</li><li>Navigation Arrows</li><li>Built-in Disqus or Facebook Comments</li><li>Custom Themes</li><li>User CSS Overrides</li><li>Basic Search Function</li><li>Basic Tag Widgets</li><li>Very customizable, with extensive Configuration Options</li>
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/notepaper_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: http://development.sjmcdougall.com/pico-themes/NotePaper/
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/notepaper_theme.jpg
      info:
        By: <a href="http://sjmcdougall.com">Simon McDougall</a>
        Last Updated: 5/01/16
    -
      heading: Single
      description: Single Theme from FreeHTML5.co, ported to Pico.<br><br>Single is a free html5 bootstrap template. It is a simple, beautiful and clean looking modern template that would fit perfectly for personal sites. This bootstrap theme is built with the latest technology such as HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery. We’ve included the sass file for you to easy to customize the template.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/single_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/single
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/single_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://freehtml5.co/preview/?item=single-free-html5-bootstrap-template">FreeHTML5.co</a>
        Last Updated: 4/07/16
    -
      heading: Magazine
      description: Magazine Theme from FreeHTML5.co, ported to Pico.<br><br>Magazine is a clean and minimal free html5 bootstrap template. Smooth animation upon scrolling and beautiful typography make this template stand out from the rest. This template is perfect for personal blog.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/magazine_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/magazine
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/magazine_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://freehtml5.co/preview/?item=magazine-free-html5-bootstrap-template">FreeHTML5.co</a>
        Last Updated: 4/03/16
    -
      heading: Identity
      description: Identity Theme from HTML5 UP, ported to Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/identity_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/single
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/identity_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="https://html5up.net/identity">html5up.net</a>
        Last Updated: 4/04/16
    -
      heading: Hold
      description: Hold Theme from FreeHTML5.co, ported to Pico.<br><br>Hold is a free html5 bootstrap template perfect for freelancers, creatives, web designer and developers alike to showcase their portfolio in an elegant way. This template has a smooth slick transition between pages and also it comes with black and white pre-made toggle style.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/hold_theme.jpg
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/BesrourMS/magazine
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/hold_theme.jpg
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/BesrourMS">BesrourMS</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://freehtml5.co/preview/?item=hold-free-html5-bootstrap-template">FreeHTML5.co</a>
        Last Updated: 5/12/16
    -
      heading: SimpleTwo
      description: SimpleTwo is a simple theme with two columns for picoCMS.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/simpletwo_theme.png
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/sonst-was/simpleTwo
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/simpletwo_theme.png
      info:
        By: <a href="https://github.com/sonst-was">sonst-was</a>
        Last Updated: 4/05/16
    -
      heading: Simple Sidebar
      description: Simple Sidebar is a theme from Start Bootstrap, ported to Pico.
      thumbnail: /style/images/docs/customization/thumbnails/simple_sidebar_theme.png
      categories: theme
      meta: Custom Theme
      link: https://github.com/dmelo/bt-theme
      images:
        - /style/images/docs/customization/fullsize/simple_sidebar_theme.png
      info:
        Ported By: <a href="https://github.com/dmelo">dmelo</a>
        Original By: <a href="http://startbootstrap.com/template-overviews/simple-sidebar/">Start Bootstrap</a>
        Last Updated: 2/13/16
---

{% include portfolio.html %}

---

## More Plugins & Themes

On this page we just present a tiny selection of the vast number of awesome third-party plugins and themes out there! A good start point for discovery is [our Wiki]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki), where you can find many more [plugins]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki/Pico-Plugins) and [themes]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki/Pico-Themes). For more information, especially about how you can create your own plugin or theme, please refer to the [docs]({{ site.github.url }}/docs/#customization).
