plugin-dev.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Development
headline: Create your own plugins & themes
description: Below is our developer documentation, you may also refer to Pico's [class documentation](phpDoc/master/).
collection: plugin-dev
---

> **Please note:** Unfortunately we didn't have the time to finish the developer docs. We'll finish this page by the release of the final Pico 1.0.0, so please stay in touch.

If you're searching for information about how to upgrade your plugin to Pico 1.0 (we appreciate that!), you can find basic information in the Pull Request message of [#252][PullRequest252] and its comments (especially [this comment][PullRequest252UpgradeNotes]). The changes were wide-ranging, so until we finish the docs (help is appreciated!), we advise you to really read the Pull Request message and, at least, skim through all comments.

If you have a question about one of the new features of Pico 1.0, please comment on [#252][PullRequest252] (although the Pull Request is closed!). If you have a problem with upgrading your plugin, please do the same. If you experience a problem with Pico in general, please notice the ["Getting help" section][GettingHelp] of the docs and open a new [Issue][Issues] on GitHub.

---

[PullRequest252]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252
[PullRequest252UpgradeNotes]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252#issuecomment-138078795
[GettingHelp]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#getting-help
[Issues]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/issues

Commit message:

Upgrade page & plugin-dev introduction: Various small improvements & fixes

plugin-dev.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Development
headline: Create your own plugins & themes
description: Below is our developer documentation, you may also refer to Pico's [class documentation](phpDoc/master/).
collection: plugin-dev
---

> **Please note:** Unfortunately we didn't have the time to finish the developer docs. We'll finish this page by the release of the final Pico 1.0.0, so please stay in touch.

If you're searching for information about how to upgrade your plugin to Pico 1.0 (we appreciate that!), you can find basic information in the Pull Request message of [#252][PullRequest252] and its comments (especially [this comment][PullRequest252UpgradeNotes]). The changes were wide-ranging, so until we finish the docs (help is appreciated!), we advise you to really read the Pull Request message and, at least, skim through all comments.

If you have a question about one of the new features of Pico 1.0, please comment on [#252][PullRequest252] (although the Pull Request is closed!). If you have a problem with upgrading your plugin, please do the same. If you experience a problem with Pico in general, please refer to the [upgrade page][Upgrade]. If this doesn't answer your question, please notice the ["Getting help" section][GettingHelp] of the docs and open a new [Issue][Issues] on GitHub.

---

[PullRequest252]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252
[PullRequest252UpgradeNotes]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252#issuecomment-138078795
[Upgrade]: {{ site.base_url }}/upgrade.html
[GettingHelp]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#getting-help
[Issues]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/issues
