upgrade.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Upgrade
headline: Upgrade Pico 0.8 or 0.9 to Pico 1.0
description: We worked hard to make the upgrade process to Pico 1.0 as easy as possible - and we think we made the grade.
toc:
    how-to-upgrade:
        _title: How to upgrade?
        routing-system: Routing system
        drop-of--pagecontent--and-the-new-picoparsepagescontent-plugin: Drop of `{{ page.content }}`
        drop-of--pageexcerpt--and-the-new-picoexcerpt-plugin: Drop of `{{ page.excerpt }}`
        ensure-restricted-access-to-content-directory: Ensure restricted access to `content` directory
    whats-new: What's new?
nav-url: /docs.html
gh_release: v1.0.0-beta.1
---

## How to upgrade?

Usually you don't have to consider anything special when upgrading a existing Pico 0.8 or 0.9 installation to Pico 1.0. You basically can follow the regular [upgrade instructions][UpgradeInstructions] as if we updated the `MINOR` version.

1. Create a backup of your Pico installation. You will need the files later!
2. Empty your installation directory and [install Pico just ordinary][InstallInstructions].
3. Copy the `config.php` from your backup to `config/config.php`. You don't have to change anything in this file.
4. Copy the `content` folder from your backup to Pico's installation directory. As a optional step, you can (but aren't required to) make your content files compatible to Pico's new routing system. You'll find detailed instructions on how to do this in the ["Routing system" section](#routing-system) below.
5. If applicable, also copy the folder of your custom theme within the `themes` directory of your backup to the `themes` folder of your Pico installation. Again you can (but aren't required to) make your theme compatible to Pico's new routing system.
6. Provided that you're using plugins, also copy all of your plugins from the `plugins` directory. Don't copy the `plugins/pico_plugin.php` - this is no real plugin, but Pico's old dummy plugin.

Pico 1.0 introduces a brand new routing system that is now compatible to any webserver. Even URL rewriting became optional. If you don't use the `.htaccess` file provided by Pico, you must update your rewriting rules to let the webserver rewrite internal links correctly. URLs like `http://example.com/pico/sub/page` must now be rewritten to `/pico/?sub/page`. Please refer to Pico's [`.htaccess` file][RewriteFile] and the [corresponding section in the docs][RewriteDocs].

A potential source of problems for users with custom themes is the removal of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}`. As long as you use old plugins, the newly introduced `PicoDeprecated` plugin ensures the further availability of these variables. However, this plugin won't get enabled when all of your plugins were updated to Pico 1.0. Furthermore we will drop the auto provision of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` with Pico 1.1. If you're using one of these variables in your theme, we highly recommend you to take the steps described in the ["Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}`"](#drop-of--pagecontent--and-the-new-picoparsepagescontent-plugin) and ["Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}`" sections](#drop-of--pageexcerpt--and-the-new-picoexcerpt-plugin) below.

### Routing system

You're not required to update your internal links to meet the new routing system, as long as you keep URL rewriting enabled. Anyway, if you want to keep the option open to disable URL rewriting later, you should do it.

In Markdown files (i.e. your `content` directory), replace all occurences of e.g. `%base_url%/sub/page` with `%base_url%?sub/page`. If you're linking to the main page (i.e. just `%base_url%`), you either shouldn't change anything or replace it with `%base_url%?index` - even this actually isn't absolutely necessary. Pico replaces the `%base_url%` variable as ever, but also removes the `?` when URL rewriting is enabled.

The required changes to your theme (i.e. a custom theme folder in Pico's `themes` directory) are quite similar. Instead of using `{% raw %}{{ base_url }}{% endraw %}` directly, use the newly introduced `link` filter. Therefore replace e.g. `{% raw %}{{ base_url }}/sub/page{% endraw %}` with `{% raw %}{{ "sub/page"|link }}{% endraw %}`. Again, you can (but aren't required to) either don't change links to the main page (i.e. just `{% raw %}{{ base_url }}{% endraw %}`) or replace them with `{% raw %}{{ "index"|link }}{% endraw %}`. The `link` filter does nothing but call the [`Pico::getPageUrl()` method][PicoGetPageUrl].

### Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and the new `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin

With Version 0.6.1 Pico started parsing the Markdown contents of all pages. While making some things easier (like generating excerpts), this heavily impacted performance with a larger number of pages (e.g. blog posts). By popular request we removed this feature with Pico 1.0 and therefore significantly improved performance.

If you're using the `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` variable in your custom theme, you should at least replace it with `{% raw %}{{ page.id|content }}{% endraw %}`. We highly recommend you to overthink the necessity of using the parsed page contents, probably the raw page contents (`{% raw %}{{ page.raw_content }}{% endraw %}`) fulfill your needs.

With Pico 1.0 we also introduced the `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin, whose object is to parse the contents of all pages as it was since Pico 0.6.1. The plugin is disabled by default, but gets automatically enabled with `PicoDeprecated` when a plugin, that wasn't updated to Pico 1.0 yet, is loaded. Please note that we'll remove this automatic activation with Pico 1.1, so you will need to enable it manually.

We highly recommend you to force the `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin to be disabled by adding `$config['PicoParsePagesContent.enabled'] = false;` to your `config/config.php`.

### Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` and the new `PicoExcerpt` plugin

The main reason why Pico started parsing the Markdown contents of all pages (see above), was the desire for automatically generated excerpts. By then we came to the convincement, that this is the wrong approach and we started searching for alternatives - and we think we found a good solution.

Given that you're using the `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` variable in your custom theme, we recommend you to part from the concept of automatically generated excerpts. Instead, you should use the `Description` meta header to write excerpts on your own. Starting with Pico 1.0 you can use `%meta.*%` placeholders in your Markdown files, so you don't have to repeat yourself - simply add `%meta.description%` to the page content and Pico will replace it by your excerpt.

As with `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and the `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin, we also introduced the `PicoExcerpt` plugin, what continues the provision of the `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` variable. This plugin depends on the `PicoParsePagesContent` and therefore heavily impacts performance. Likewise it gets automatically enabled with `PicoDeprecated`, something we'll drop with Pico 1.1.

We highly recommend you to force the `PicoExcerpt` plugin to be disabled - just add `$config['PicoExcerpt.enabled'] = false;` to your `config/config.php`.

### Ensure restricted access to `content` directory

WORK IN PROGRESS

---

## What's new?

Unfortunately we didn't have the time to finish this section. The above ["How to upgrade" section](#how-to-upgrade) should give you a clue what has changed for users, the changes for developers are even more wide-ranging. We'll finish this section by the release of the final Pico 1.0.0, so please stay in touch. If you really want to get more information, please refer to the considerable Pull Request message of [#252][PullRequest252Message].

If you have a question about one of the new features of Pico 1.0, please comment on [#252][PullRequest252] (although the Pull Request is closed!). If you experience a problem with Pico, please notice the ["Getting help" section][GettingHelp] of the docs and open a new [Issue][Issues] on GitHub.

[UpgradeInstructions]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#upgrade
[InstallInstructions]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#install
[RewriteFile]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ page.gh_release }}/.htaccess#L7
[RewriteDocs]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#url-rewriting
[PicoGetPageUrl]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ page.gh_release }}/lib/Pico.php#L1168-L1171
[PullRequest252]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252
[PullRequest252Message]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252#issue-103755569
[GettingHelp]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#getting-help
[Issues]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/issues



<!--

The new `PicoDeprecated` plugin ensures backward compatibility to Pico 0.9 and older. The plugin is disabled by default, but gets automatically enabled as soon as a old plugin is loaded. We will maintain backward compatibility for a long time, however, we recommend you to take the following steps to confine the neccessity of `PicoDeprecated` to old plugins. If you don't use plugins or upgraded all plugins to be compatible to Pico 1.0, you must take these steps.

If you're a plugin developer, please refer to the new development docs, particularly the [plugin upgrade section][PluginUpgrade].



## What's new?

`Pico 1.0.0-beta.1` brings with it a complete code refactoring and overhaul of the plugin system, countless bug fixes, compatibility with all web servers, and enhanced documentation. Making Pico extremely simple, faster, and more flexible than ever. <sup> * </sup>Best of all, it's completely backwards compatible! Click for a full [changelog]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/changelog.txt).

Detailed below is some of the most important changes to note when upgrading Pico from a `0.x` release to the new `Pico 1.0.0-beta.1`

### Initialization
Initialization of Pico now works completely different: rather than defining constants (which are probably conflicting with other applications...), Pico now expects its paths to be passed as parameters to the [constructor]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method___construct). The constructor doesn't start Picos processing anymore, you now have to call the [Pico::run()]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method_run) method, which returns the parsed page contents instead of directly echoing them. The [PicoDeprecated]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/00-PicoDeprecated.php) plugin defines the now deprecated constants `ROOT_DIR`, `LIB_DIR` etc., so old plugins can still use them. Those constants are defined before reading `config.php` in Picos root folder, so upgrading users usually aren't bothered with e.g. a `PHP Notice: Use of undefined constant ROOT_DIR - assumed 'ROOT_DIR'` error when using `ROOT_DIR` in their `config.php` (so: no BC break). This change is reflected in the new [index.php]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/index.php) file.

New users don't need the constants anymore, relative paths are now always interpreted to be relative to Picos root dir, so `$config['content_dir'] = 'content';` is always sufficient (previously this was depending on the webserver config). All these changes are supposed to improve Picos interoperability with other applications and allows developers to integrate Pico in other applications, therefore there is a newly added [Pico::setConfig()]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method_setConfig) method to even make the use of a config.php optional.

### Routing System
The new routing system now works out-of-the-box (even without rewriting) with any webserver using the QUERY_STRING routing method. Internal links now look like `?sub/page`, rewriting to basically remove the `?` is still possible and recommended. Contrary to Pico 0.9 every webserver should work just fine. Pico 0.9 required working URL rewriting, so if you want to use old plugins/themes/contents, a working rewrite setup may still be required. If you're not using the default .htaccess, you must update your rewrite rules to follow the new principles. Internal links in content files are declared with `%base_url%?sub/page`. Internal links in templates should be declared using the new link filter (e.g. `{{ "sub/page"|link }}`), what basically calls [Pico::getPageUrl()]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method_getPageUrl)

### Plugin System
A whole new plugin system has been implemented while maintaining full backward compatibility. See the class docs of [PicoPluginInterface]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/PicoPluginInterface.html) for details. The new event system supports plugin dependencies as well as some new events. It was necessary to reliably distinct between old and new events, so __all events were renamed__. The new [PicoDeprecated]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/00-PicoDeprecated.php) plugin is crucial for backward compatibility, it's enabled on demand. Refer to its class docs for details.

It is important to note the performance issue with Pico 0.x releases is fixed only when the [PicoParsePagesContent]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/01-PicoParsePagesContent.php) plugin isn't enabled. It's disabled by default, but gets automatically enabled with [PicoDeprecated]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/00-PicoDeprecated.php) as soon as an old plugin is loaded. This is necessary to maintain backward compatibility. You can still disable it manually by executing` $pico->getPlugin('PicoParsePagesContent')->setEnabled(false);` or adding `$config['PicoParsePagesContent.enabled'] = false;` to your `config.php`.

>If you're a plugin developer, please refer to the new development docs, particularly the [plugin upgrade]({{ site.base_url }}/plugin-dev.html#migrating-from-0x-to-10) section.

>Users, please refer to the websites of the plugins you're using to get updates for them.

---

## How to upgrade?
"That's all fine, but what do I need to do to upgrade?"

We worked hard to make the upgrade process to `Pico 1.0.0` as easy as possible - and we think we made the grade!

Usually you don't have to consider anything special, nevertheless you should always make sure you __create a backup of your Pico installation before upgrading__.

### 1. The first step is to delete all of Picos files except for your __`content`__ directory, __`config.php`__ (or `config/config.php`) and, if applicable, the directory of your custom __`theme`__, and provided that you're using plugins, also keep the __`plugins`__ directory.
![Step 1]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_delete_old.jpg)
![Step 1a]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_old_deleted.jpg)

### 2. You can then upload `Pico 1.0.0` to your installation directory.
![Step 2]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_select_1.0.jpg)
![Step 2a]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_move_1.0.jpg)

### 3. Move your `config.php` to the new `config/` directory.
![Step 3]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_move_config.jpg)

### 4. URL Rewriting became optional in `Pico 1.0.0`
If you don't use the `.htaccess` file provided by Pico, you must update your rewriting rules to let the webserver rewrite internal links (e.g. `index.php?sub/page`) correctly. You need not update your markdown files or custom Twig templates if you keep URL rewriting enabled. Otherwise you have to change all internal links in markdown files (e.g. `%base_url%?sub/page`) and your custom Twig templates (e.g. `{% raw %}{{ "sub/page"|link }}{% endraw %}`).

Further reading:

- MOD_REWRITE [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html)
- QUERY_STRING [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string)

### 5. That's it! Enjoy your newly upgraded Pico installation!
If you need more help, please review the documentation. If after reviewing the upgrade documentation, you are still having trouble: there is a __[Upgrading Pico 0.x to 1.0.0]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/issues/)__ discussion on our Github issues page.

-->

Commit message:

Upgrade page: Add "Ensure restricted access" section

upgrade.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Upgrade
headline: Upgrade Pico 0.8 or 0.9 to Pico 1.0
description: We worked hard to make the upgrade process to Pico 1.0 as easy as possible - and we think we made the grade.
toc:
    how-to-upgrade:
        _title: How to upgrade?
        routing-system: Routing system
        drop-of--pagecontent--and-the-new-picoparsepagescontent-plugin: Drop of `{{ page.content }}`
        drop-of--pageexcerpt--and-the-new-picoexcerpt-plugin: Drop of `{{ page.excerpt }}`
        ensure-restricted-access-to-content-directory: Ensure restricted access to `content` directory
    whats-new: What's new?
nav-url: /docs.html
gh_release: v1.0.0-beta.1
---

## How to upgrade?

Usually you don't have to consider anything special when upgrading a existing Pico 0.8 or 0.9 installation to Pico 1.0. You basically can follow the regular [upgrade instructions][UpgradeInstructions] as if we updated the `MINOR` version.

1. Create a backup of your Pico installation. You will need the files later!
2. Empty your installation directory and [install Pico just ordinary][InstallInstructions].
3. Copy the `config.php` from your backup to `config/config.php`. You don't have to change anything in this file.
4. Copy the `content` folder from your backup to Pico's installation directory. As a optional step, you can (but aren't required to) make your content files compatible to Pico's new routing system. You'll find detailed instructions on how to do this in the ["Routing system" section](#routing-system) below.
5. If applicable, also copy the folder of your custom theme within the `themes` directory of your backup to the `themes` folder of your Pico installation. Again you can (but aren't required to) make your theme compatible to Pico's new routing system.
6. Provided that you're using plugins, also copy all of your plugins from the `plugins` directory. Don't copy the `plugins/pico_plugin.php` - this is no real plugin, but Pico's old dummy plugin.

Pico 1.0 introduces a brand new routing system that is now compatible to any webserver. Even URL rewriting became optional. If you don't use the `.htaccess` file provided by Pico, you must update your rewriting rules to let the webserver rewrite internal links correctly. URLs like `http://example.com/pico/sub/page` must now be rewritten to `/pico/?sub/page`. Please refer to Pico's [`.htaccess` file][RewriteFile] and the [corresponding section in the docs][RewriteDocs].

A potential source of problems for users with custom themes is the removal of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}`. As long as you use old plugins, the newly introduced `PicoDeprecated` plugin ensures the further availability of these variables. However, this plugin won't get enabled when all of your plugins were updated to Pico 1.0. Furthermore we will drop the auto provision of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` with Pico 1.1. If you're using one of these variables in your theme, we highly recommend you to take the steps described in the ["Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}`"](#drop-of--pagecontent--and-the-new-picoparsepagescontent-plugin) and ["Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}`" sections](#drop-of--pageexcerpt--and-the-new-picoexcerpt-plugin) below.

### Routing system

You're not required to update your internal links to meet the new routing system, as long as you keep URL rewriting enabled. Anyway, if you want to keep the option open to disable URL rewriting later, you should do it.

In Markdown files (i.e. your `content` directory), replace all occurences of e.g. `%base_url%/sub/page` with `%base_url%?sub/page`. If you're linking to the main page (i.e. just `%base_url%`), you either shouldn't change anything or replace it with `%base_url%?index` - even this actually isn't absolutely necessary. Pico replaces the `%base_url%` variable as ever, but also removes the `?` when URL rewriting is enabled.

The required changes to your theme (i.e. a custom theme folder in Pico's `themes` directory) are quite similar. Instead of using `{% raw %}{{ base_url }}{% endraw %}` directly, use the newly introduced `link` filter. Therefore replace e.g. `{% raw %}{{ base_url }}/sub/page{% endraw %}` with `{% raw %}{{ "sub/page"|link }}{% endraw %}`. Again, you can (but aren't required to) either don't change links to the main page (i.e. just `{% raw %}{{ base_url }}{% endraw %}`) or replace them with `{% raw %}{{ "index"|link }}{% endraw %}`. The `link` filter does nothing but call the [`Pico::getPageUrl()` method][PicoGetPageUrl].

### Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and the new `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin

With Version 0.6.1 Pico started parsing the Markdown contents of all pages. While making some things easier (like generating excerpts), this heavily impacted performance with a larger number of pages (e.g. blog posts). By popular request we removed this feature with Pico 1.0 and therefore significantly improved performance.

If you're using the `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` variable in your custom theme, you should at least replace it with `{% raw %}{{ page.id|content }}{% endraw %}`. We highly recommend you to overthink the necessity of using the parsed page contents, probably the raw page contents (`{% raw %}{{ page.raw_content }}{% endraw %}`) fulfill your needs.

With Pico 1.0 we also introduced the `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin, whose object is to parse the contents of all pages as it was since Pico 0.6.1. The plugin is disabled by default, but gets automatically enabled with `PicoDeprecated` when a plugin, that wasn't updated to Pico 1.0 yet, is loaded. Please note that we'll remove this automatic activation with Pico 1.1, so you will need to enable it manually.

We highly recommend you to force the `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin to be disabled by adding `$config['PicoParsePagesContent.enabled'] = false;` to your `config/config.php`.

### Drop of `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` and the new `PicoExcerpt` plugin

The main reason why Pico started parsing the Markdown contents of all pages (see above), was the desire for automatically generated excerpts. By then we came to the convincement, that this is the wrong approach and we started searching for alternatives - and we think we found a good solution.

Given that you're using the `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` variable in your custom theme, we recommend you to part from the concept of automatically generated excerpts. Instead, you should use the `Description` meta header to write excerpts on your own. Starting with Pico 1.0 you can use `%meta.*%` placeholders in your Markdown files, so you don't have to repeat yourself - simply add `%meta.description%` to the page content and Pico will replace it by your excerpt.

As with `{% raw %}{{ page.content }}{% endraw %}` and the `PicoParsePagesContent` plugin, we also introduced the `PicoExcerpt` plugin, what continues the provision of the `{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt }}{% endraw %}` variable. This plugin depends on the `PicoParsePagesContent` and therefore heavily impacts performance. Likewise it gets automatically enabled with `PicoDeprecated`, something we'll drop with Pico 1.1.

We highly recommend you to force the `PicoExcerpt` plugin to be disabled - just add `$config['PicoExcerpt.enabled'] = false;` to your `config/config.php`.

### Ensure restricted access to `content` directory

With Pico 1.0 we removed some empty `index.html` files, whose object was to prevent directory listing. However, directory listing doesn't address the security concerns in whole. Our `.htaccess` file already tries to achieve this automatically, nevertheless you should ensure that your webserver (especially when you're not using Apache) is configured as recommended.

Please make sure directory listing is disabled and users cannot browse to the `config`, `content`, `content-sample`, `lib` and `vendor` directories. Try it yourself by browsing to both your `lib` directory (e.g. `http://example.com/pico/lib/`) and `lib/Pico.php` file (e.g. `http://example.com/pico/lib/Pico.php`) - your webserver should either report `404 Not Found` or `403 Forbidden`.

---

## What's new?

Unfortunately we didn't have the time to finish this section. The above ["How to upgrade" section](#how-to-upgrade) should give you a clue what has changed for users, the changes for developers are even more wide-ranging. We'll finish this section by the release of the final Pico 1.0.0, so please stay in touch. If you really want to get more information, please refer to the considerable Pull Request message of [#252][PullRequest252Message].

If you have a question about one of the new features of Pico 1.0, please comment on [#252][PullRequest252] (although the Pull Request is closed!). If you experience a problem with Pico, please notice the ["Getting help" section][GettingHelp] of the docs and open a new [Issue][Issues] on GitHub.

[UpgradeInstructions]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#upgrade
[InstallInstructions]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#install
[RewriteFile]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ page.gh_release }}/.htaccess#L7
[RewriteDocs]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#url-rewriting
[PicoGetPageUrl]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ page.gh_release }}/lib/Pico.php#L1168-L1171
[PullRequest252]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252
[PullRequest252Message]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pull/252#issue-103755569
[GettingHelp]: {{ site.base_url }}/docs.html#getting-help
[Issues]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/issues



{% comment %}

The new `PicoDeprecated` plugin ensures backward compatibility to Pico 0.9 and older. The plugin is disabled by default, but gets automatically enabled as soon as a old plugin is loaded. We will maintain backward compatibility for a long time, however, we recommend you to take the following steps to confine the neccessity of `PicoDeprecated` to old plugins. If you don't use plugins or upgraded all plugins to be compatible to Pico 1.0, you must take these steps.

If you're a plugin developer, please refer to the new development docs, particularly the [plugin upgrade section][PluginUpgrade].



## What's new?

`Pico 1.0.0-beta.1` brings with it a complete code refactoring and overhaul of the plugin system, countless bug fixes, compatibility with all web servers, and enhanced documentation. Making Pico extremely simple, faster, and more flexible than ever. <sup> * </sup>Best of all, it's completely backwards compatible! Click for a full [changelog]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/changelog.txt).

Detailed below is some of the most important changes to note when upgrading Pico from a `0.x` release to the new `Pico 1.0.0-beta.1`

### Initialization
Initialization of Pico now works completely different: rather than defining constants (which are probably conflicting with other applications...), Pico now expects its paths to be passed as parameters to the [constructor]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method___construct). The constructor doesn't start Picos processing anymore, you now have to call the [Pico::run()]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method_run) method, which returns the parsed page contents instead of directly echoing them. The [PicoDeprecated]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/00-PicoDeprecated.php) plugin defines the now deprecated constants `ROOT_DIR`, `LIB_DIR` etc., so old plugins can still use them. Those constants are defined before reading `config.php` in Picos root folder, so upgrading users usually aren't bothered with e.g. a `PHP Notice: Use of undefined constant ROOT_DIR - assumed 'ROOT_DIR'` error when using `ROOT_DIR` in their `config.php` (so: no BC break). This change is reflected in the new [index.php]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/index.php) file.

New users don't need the constants anymore, relative paths are now always interpreted to be relative to Picos root dir, so `$config['content_dir'] = 'content';` is always sufficient (previously this was depending on the webserver config). All these changes are supposed to improve Picos interoperability with other applications and allows developers to integrate Pico in other applications, therefore there is a newly added [Pico::setConfig()]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method_setConfig) method to even make the use of a config.php optional.

### Routing System
The new routing system now works out-of-the-box (even without rewriting) with any webserver using the QUERY_STRING routing method. Internal links now look like `?sub/page`, rewriting to basically remove the `?` is still possible and recommended. Contrary to Pico 0.9 every webserver should work just fine. Pico 0.9 required working URL rewriting, so if you want to use old plugins/themes/contents, a working rewrite setup may still be required. If you're not using the default .htaccess, you must update your rewrite rules to follow the new principles. Internal links in content files are declared with `%base_url%?sub/page`. Internal links in templates should be declared using the new link filter (e.g. `{{ "sub/page"|link }}`), what basically calls [Pico::getPageUrl()]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/Pico.html#method_getPageUrl)

### Plugin System
A whole new plugin system has been implemented while maintaining full backward compatibility. See the class docs of [PicoPluginInterface]({{ site.base_url }}/phpDoc/master/classes/PicoPluginInterface.html) for details. The new event system supports plugin dependencies as well as some new events. It was necessary to reliably distinct between old and new events, so __all events were renamed__. The new [PicoDeprecated]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/00-PicoDeprecated.php) plugin is crucial for backward compatibility, it's enabled on demand. Refer to its class docs for details.

It is important to note the performance issue with Pico 0.x releases is fixed only when the [PicoParsePagesContent]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/01-PicoParsePagesContent.php) plugin isn't enabled. It's disabled by default, but gets automatically enabled with [PicoDeprecated]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/plugins/00-PicoDeprecated.php) as soon as an old plugin is loaded. This is necessary to maintain backward compatibility. You can still disable it manually by executing` $pico->getPlugin('PicoParsePagesContent')->setEnabled(false);` or adding `$config['PicoParsePagesContent.enabled'] = false;` to your `config.php`.

>If you're a plugin developer, please refer to the new development docs, particularly the [plugin upgrade]({{ site.base_url }}/plugin-dev.html#migrating-from-0x-to-10) section.

>Users, please refer to the websites of the plugins you're using to get updates for them.

---

## How to upgrade?
"That's all fine, but what do I need to do to upgrade?"

We worked hard to make the upgrade process to `Pico 1.0.0` as easy as possible - and we think we made the grade!

Usually you don't have to consider anything special, nevertheless you should always make sure you __create a backup of your Pico installation before upgrading__.

### 1. The first step is to delete all of Picos files except for your __`content`__ directory, __`config.php`__ (or `config/config.php`) and, if applicable, the directory of your custom __`theme`__, and provided that you're using plugins, also keep the __`plugins`__ directory.
![Step 1]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_delete_old.jpg)
![Step 1a]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_old_deleted.jpg)

### 2. You can then upload `Pico 1.0.0` to your installation directory.
![Step 2]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_select_1.0.jpg)
![Step 2a]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_move_1.0.jpg)

### 3. Move your `config.php` to the new `config/` directory.
![Step 3]({{ site.base_url }}/style/images/docs/pico_upgrade_move_config.jpg)

### 4. URL Rewriting became optional in `Pico 1.0.0`
If you don't use the `.htaccess` file provided by Pico, you must update your rewriting rules to let the webserver rewrite internal links (e.g. `index.php?sub/page`) correctly. You need not update your markdown files or custom Twig templates if you keep URL rewriting enabled. Otherwise you have to change all internal links in markdown files (e.g. `%base_url%?sub/page`) and your custom Twig templates (e.g. `{% raw %}{{ "sub/page"|link }}{% endraw %}`).

Further reading:

- MOD_REWRITE [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html)
- QUERY_STRING [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string)

### 5. That's it! Enjoy your newly upgraded Pico installation!
If you need more help, please review the documentation. If after reviewing the upgrade documentation, you are still having trouble: there is a __[Upgrading Pico 0.x to 1.0.0]({{ site.gh_project_url }}/issues/)__ discussion on our Github issues page.

{% endcomment %}
