_docs/contribute.md, before:

---
toc:
    contribute: Contribute
nav: 8
---

## Contribute

You want to contribute to Pico? We really appreciate that! You can help making Pico better by [contributing code][PullRequests] or [reporting issues][Issues], but please take note of our [contribution guidelines][ContributionGuidelines]. In general you can contribute in three different areas:

1. Plugins & Themes: You're a plugin developer or theme designer? We love you guys! You can find tons of information about how to develop plugins and themes at http://picocms.org/plugin-dev.html. If you have created a plugin or theme, please add it to our [Wiki][], either on the [plugins][WikiPlugins] or [themes page][WikiThemes]. Maybe we will then promote your plugin or theme on [our website][OfficialPlugins] as officially supported!
2. Documentation: We always appreciate people improving our documentation. You can either improve the [inline user docs][EditInlineDocs] or the more extensive [user docs on our website][EditUserDocs]. You can also improve the [docs for plugin and theme developers][EditDevDocs]. Simply fork Pico from https://github.com/picocms/Pico, change the Markdown files and open a [pull request][PullRequests].
3. Picos Core: The supreme discipline is to work on Picos Core. Your contribution should help *every* Pico user to have a better experience with Pico. If this is the case, fork Pico from https://github.com/picocms/Pico and open a [pull request][PullRequests]. We look forward to your contribution!

[OfficialPlugins]: http://picocms.org/plugins.html
[Wiki]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/wiki
[WikiPlugins]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/wiki/Pico-Plugins
[WikiThemes]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/wiki/Pico-Themes
[Issues]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/issues
[PullRequests]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/pulls
[ContributionGuidelines]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[EditInlineDocs]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/blob/master/content-sample/index.md
[EditUserDocs]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/tree/gh-pages/_docs
[EditDevDocs]: https://github.com/picocms/Pico/tree/gh-pages/_plugin-dev

Commit message:

Add "fork and edit" hint to docs; Add gh_{project,pages}_{url,branch} globals

_docs/contribute.md, after:

---
toc:
    contribute: Contribute
nav: 8
---

## Contribute

You want to contribute to Pico? We really appreciate that! You can help making Pico better by [contributing code][PullRequests] or [reporting issues][Issues], but please take note of our [contribution guidelines][ContributionGuidelines]. In general you can contribute in three different areas:

1. Plugins & Themes: You're a plugin developer or theme designer? We love you guys! You can find tons of information about how to develop plugins and themes at {{ site.base_url }}/plugin-dev.html.html. If you have created a plugin or theme, please add it to our [Wiki][], either on the [plugins][WikiPlugins] or [themes page][WikiThemes]. Maybe we will then promote your plugin or theme on [our website][OfficialPlugins] as officially supported!
2. Documentation: We always appreciate people improving our documentation. You can either improve the [inline user docs][EditInlineDocs] or the more extensive [user docs on our website][EditUserDocs]. You can also improve the [docs for plugin and theme developers][EditDevDocs]. Simply fork Pico from {{ site.gh_project_url }}, change the Markdown files and open a [pull request][PullRequests].
3. Picos Core: The supreme discipline is to work on Picos Core. Your contribution should help *every* Pico user to have a better experience with Pico. If this is the case, fork Pico from {{ site.gh_project_url }} and open a [pull request][PullRequests]. We look forward to your contribution!

[OfficialPlugins]: {{ site.base_url }}/plugins.html
[Wiki]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki
[WikiPlugins]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki/Pico-Plugins
[WikiThemes]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/wiki/Pico-Themes
[Issues]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/issues
[PullRequests]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/pulls
[ContributionGuidelines]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/CONTRIBUTING.md
[EditInlineDocs]: {{ site.gh_project_url }}/blob/{{ site.gh_project_branch }}/content-sample/index.md
[EditUserDocs]: {{ site.gh_pages_url }}/tree/{{ site.gh_pages_branch }}/_docs
[EditDevDocs]: {{ site.gh_pages_url }}/tree/{{ site.gh_pages_branch }}/_plugin-dev
